# THM_wazuh_collections

## Table of Contents
- [Wazuh](#wazuh)
- [Custom Alert Rules in Wazuh](#custom-alert-rules-in-wazuh)


## Wazuh
### Introduction
1. When was Wazuh released?

    The answer is `2015`.

2. What is the term that Wazuh calls a device that is being monitored for suspicious activity and potential security threats? 

    The answer is `agent`.

3. Lastly, what is the term for a device that is responsible for managing these devices?

    The answer is `manager`.

### Wazuh Agents
1. How many agents does this Wazuh management server manage?

    The answer is `2`.

2. What are the status of the agents managed by this Wazuh management server?

    The answer is `disconnected`.


### Wazuh Vulnerability and Security Assessment
1. How many "Security Event" alerts have been generated by the agent "AGENT-001"?

    The answer is `196`.

### Collecting Windows Logs with Wazuh
1. What is the name of the tool that we can use to monitor system events?

    The answer is `Sysmon`.

2. What standard application on Windows do these system events get recorded to?

    The answer is `Event Viewer`.

### Collecting Linux Logs with Wazuh
1. What is the full file path to the rules located on a Wazuh management server?

    The answer is `/var/ossec/ruleset/rules`.

### Auditing Command on Linux with Wazuh
1. What application do we use on Linux to monitor events such as command execution?

    The answer is `auditd`.

2. What is the full path & filename for where the aforementioned application stores rules?

    The answer is `/etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules`.

### Wazuh API
1. What is the name of the standard Linux tool that we can use to make requests to  the Wazuh management server?

    The answer is `curl`.

2. What HTTP method would we use to retrieve information for a Wazuh management server API?

    The answer is `GET`.

3. What HTTP method would we use to perform an action on a Wazuh management server API?

    The answer is `PUT`.

4. Use the API console to find the Wazuh server's version.

    We can go to the Wazuh API console and use the `GET /manager/info` command to retrieve the server's version. The answer is `v4.2.5`.

### Generating Reports with Wazuh
1. Analyse the report. What is the name of the agent that has generated the most alerts?

    The answer is `agent-001`.


## Custom Alert Rules in Wazuh
### Decoders
1. Looking at the Sysmon Log, what will the value of sysmon.commandLine be?

    The answer is `"C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\powershell.exe" "-file" "C:\Users\Alberto\Desktop\test.ps1"`.

2. What would the extracted value be if the regex is set to "User: \S*"?

    The answer is `WIN-P57C9KN929H\Alberto`.

## Rules
1.  From the Ruleset Test results, what is the <mitre> ID of rule id 184666?

    The answer is `T1055`.

2. According to the Wazuh documentation, what is the description of the rule with a classification level of 12?

    The answer is `High importance event`.

3. In the Ruleset Test page, change the value of  "sysmon.image" to "taskhost.exe', and press the "Test" button again. What is the ID of the rule that will get triggered?

    The answer is `184736`.

### Rule Order
1. In the sysmon_rules.xml file, what is the Rule ID of the parent of 184717?

    The answer is `184716`.

### Custom Rules
1. What is the regex field name used in the local_rules.xml?

    The answer is `audit.cwd`.

2. Looking at the log, what is the current working directory (cwd) from where the command was executed?

    The answer is `/var/log/audit`.

### Fine-Tuning
1. If the filename in the logs is "test.php", what rule ID will be triggered?

    The answer is `100003`.

2. If the filename in the logs is "malware-checker.sh", what is the rule classification level in the generated alert?

    The answer is `12`.